---
title: 10/6/17 update
---

## Phase 3

We did our pitch for Phase 3 of Incubator funding, but unfortunately **the proposal was denied**. The primary feedback was:

> the question now is not whether the idea is good, it's whether the benefits are enough and the project is ready enough to warrant this size of investment from a limited pool of money

The team is disappointed, but still believes in [our proposed direction]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/phase_3_pitch_deck.pdf), in terms of cost savings, reduction of effort, etc. **We aren't giving up on trying to continue Boise work**, and are exploring other avenues to work towards [our goal]({{ site.baseurl }}) of improving security compliance processes. There is still significant interest in [OpenControl](http://open-control.org/) and Project Boise inside and outside of the Technology Transformation Service, so we are optimistic that we can find a good home and funding stream for it.

## Shift of emphasis

In talking more and more about Project Boise, the team has had a realization that we have been successful in being a largely neutral player in the security compliance realm, getting groups from a large swath of [the space]({{ site.baseurl }}/background/stakeholders/) to open up to us. One the main things we observed was a pervasive culture of fear, which manifested itself as a reluctance to share compliance processes, documentation, etc. Because information is locked away in Word docs and spreadsheets, a lot of redundant work is done, because individuals don't know the work has already been done elsewhere.

Early on when developing our [pitch]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/phase_3_pitch_deck.pdf) ([source](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1n02JdQuia-DerMp6WRsFpTtORC-UdLfcT1eIRf4AwgM/edit#slide=id.p)), we perhaps over-emphasized [Compliance Masonry](https://github.com/opencontrol/compliance-masonry) as a product, or a even a tool that would be used directly by a broad audience. **Compliance Masonry is most useful as a reference implementation that shows the value of the OpenControl schema**, and the way of working that encourages. Compliance Masonry provides the most benefit when compliance documentation is shared publicly, broken down into components, and provided in a structured format.

Other risk management products offered by vendors can also benefit from this compliance information, as long as they have a means to import data directly or via API. We know of several commercial products that currently or plan to support the OpenControl format directly, and there are many others where a small adapter could be written to bridge the gap. These products already have many more features and are more user-friendly than Compliance Masonry, and we're ok with that.

Therefore, **Project Boise's next steps are not to sell agencies and vendors on Compliance Masonry, but OpenControl**. More broadly, Project Boise's emphasis becomes about pushing for sharing, collaboration, structure, and interoperability of compliance information, rather than a particular product or tool. We hope this will retain our valuable stance as a relatively neutral party, connecting with vendors as a partner rather than a competitor.

## Events

We were on a panel at the [NIST Risk Management Framework workshop](https://beta.csrc.nist.gov/Events/2017/NIST-Risk-Management-Framework-Workshop) about Automating ATOs, and made good connections with the attendees there. We were pleasantly surprised to find that multiple people we hadn't connected with already knew about Project Boise, and were supportive of the work.

Other events coming up:

- Small and Micro Agency Council Lunch and Learn, 10/11/17
- [Small Agency Council](https://www.sac.gov/), 10/24/17
- [Red Hat Government Symposium](https://fedscoop.com/events/redhatgov/2017/), 11/9/17
- [Docker compliance webinar](https://www.docker.com/events/docker-webinars), 11/2/17
