---
title: Update for week of 9/8/17
---

Hello September! Project Boise is in the home stretch of our [Discovery]({{ site.url }}/background/) Phase. We're working to capture and share what we've learned, and prepare for what's next.

## Interviews

**We completed our stakeholder interviews.** The more people we talked to, the more people we realized we _could_ talk to, so this was more about cutting ourselves off (in the spirit of "fixed time/budget, flexible scope") than being "done" per se.

We are greatly appreciative of the time, generosity, and openness of our 30+ interviewees. We're preparing to capture the highlights of what we've learned across a few different vectors: What's working, what's counterintuitive, pain points, opportunities, observations, and notable quotes.

## Artifacts

**We are working to synthesize hundreds of pages of notes**, into easily-digestable artifacts that we can share publicly while maintaining the privacy of our participants. We will be getting that information out on this site soon, and will point to specifics in the next update.

## Pitch

**We're pitching for our next Phase of Incubator funding next Friday, 9/15.** We will be presenting to the leadership of the Technology Transformation Service (TTS), who make up the Incubator Program Advisory Board (PAB). The deck for the presentation will be posted on this site when it is complete.

The $500,000 of additional funding would allow us to expand the team. The headcount and desired skill makeup are still to-be-determined, and will ultimately determine how long our funding would last. Pending the approval of our next Phase of work, we expect to pick up this work again in early October.

While our Discovery Phase was about talking to people and learning, the focus of the next Phase is designing and building. In our pitch, **we will be proposing renewed focus on supporting [OpenControl](http://open-control.org/)**, potentially expanding into other compliance-related areas in the not-too-distant future. For those who aren't familiar, [the OpenControl schemas](https://github.com/opencontrol/schemas) provides a way for compliance information to be authored and leveraged in a structured way, which helps reduce the effort in producing compliance documentation.

To that end, we are **[looking for information on who's using OpenControl](https://github.com/opencontrol/discuss/issues/33)**. Please let us know there or by email if you have considered or are using OpenControl or Compliance Masonry.

---

Thanks!
